HardwareVariants.md, before:

# P8 Hardware Variants

## Pinetime

- Seen as: `Pinetime` (`TARGET_DEVICE=PINETIME`)
- Pinmap: Pinetime (`DRIVER_PINMAP_PINETIME`)
- Acceleration sensor: BMA421 (`DRIVER_ACC_BMA421`)
- LF clock: XTAL (`LF_CLK=XTAL`)
- Touch sensor: dynamic (`DRIVER_TOUCH_DYNAMIC`)
    - Chip marking: `CST816S`
    - Reports as `B4-0.1`
    - Configurable mode of operation
    - Sometimes fails to reset on pin signal
    - Behavior: Gesture event during gesture, touch events during gesture
- Flash: XT25F32B


## P8a

- Seen as: `MOY-TFK5`(`TARGET_DEVICE=MOY-TFK5`)
- Pinmap: P8 (`DRIVER_PINMAP_P8`)
- Acceleration sensor: BMA421 (`DRIVER_ACC_BMA421`)
- LF clock: XTAL (`LF_CLK=XTAL`)
- Touch sensor: fused gesture (`DRIVER_TOUCH_GESTURE`)
    - Chip marking: `CST716`
    - Reports as `B4-0.2`
    - Fused mode of operation in gesture mode
    - Behavior: Gesture event after gesture only
- Flash: XM25QH32B


## P8a variant 2

- Seen as: `MOY-TIN5` (`TARGET_DEVICE=MOY-TIN5`)
- Pinmap: P8 (`DRIVER_PINMAP_P8`)
- Acceleration sensor: SC7A20 (`DRIVER_ACC_SC7A20`)
- LF clock: XTAL (`LF_CLK=XTAL`)
- Touch sensor: fused gesture (`DRIVER_TOUCH_GESTURE`)
    - Chip marking: `CST716`
    - Reports as `B4-0.2`
    - Fused mode of operation in gesture mode
    - Behavior: Gesture event after gesture only
- Flash: XM25QH32B


## P8b

- Seen as: `MOY-TON5` (`TARGET_DEVICE=MOY-TON5`)
- Pinmap: P8 (`DRIVER_PINMAP_P8`)
- Acceleration sensor: SC7A20 (`DRIVER_ACC_SC7A20`)
- LF clock: RC (`LF_CLK=RC`)
- Touch sensor: fused reporting (`DRIVER_TOUCH_REPORT`)
    - Chip marking: `CST816`
    - Reports as `20-6c.5`, `20-6c.7`
    - Fused mode of operation in reporting mode
    - Resets on pin signal
    - Behavior: Gesture event after gesture, touch events during gesture
- Flash: P25Q32H

## P8b mirrored

- Seen as: *Unknown* (`TARGET_DEVICE=MOY-UNK`)
- Pinmap: P8 (`DRIVER_PINMAP_P8`)
- Acceleration sensor: SC7A20 (`DRIVER_ACC_SC7A20`)
- LF clock: RC (`LF_CLK=RC`)
- Touch sensor: fused reporting (`DRIVER_TOUCH_REPORT`)
    - Chip marking: `TBD`
    - Reports as `TBD`
    - Fused mode of operation in reporting mode
    - Resets on pin signal
    - Behavior: Gesture event after gesture, touch events during gesture
- Flash: P25Q32H
- Display is mirrored and inverted (`DISPLAY_DRIVER_MIRROR`)

Commit message:

Add touch patch for alternate p8b, fix compiler warning

HardwareVariants.md, after:

# P8 Hardware Variants

## Pinetime

- Seen as: `Pinetime` (`TARGET_DEVICE=PINETIME`)
- Pinmap: Pinetime (`DRIVER_PINMAP_PINETIME`)
- Acceleration sensor: BMA421 (`DRIVER_ACC_BMA421`)
- LF clock: XTAL (`LF_CLK=XTAL`)
- Touch sensor: dynamic (`DRIVER_TOUCH_DYNAMIC`)
    - Chip marking: `CST816S`
    - Reports as `B4-0.1`
    - Configurable mode of operation
    - Sometimes fails to reset on pin signal
    - Behavior: Gesture event during gesture, touch events during gesture
- Flash: XT25F32B


## P8a

- Seen as: `MOY-TFK5`(`TARGET_DEVICE=MOY_TFK5`)
- Pinmap: P8 (`DRIVER_PINMAP_P8`)
- Acceleration sensor: BMA421 (`DRIVER_ACC_BMA421`)
- LF clock: XTAL (`LF_CLK=XTAL`)
- Touch sensor: fused gesture (`DRIVER_TOUCH_GESTURE`)
    - Chip marking: `CST716`
    - Reports as `B4-0.2`
    - Fused mode of operation in gesture mode
    - Behavior: Gesture event after gesture only
- Flash: XM25QH32B


## P8a variant 2

- Seen as: `MOY-TIN5` (`TARGET_DEVICE=MOY_TIN5`)
- Pinmap: P8 (`DRIVER_PINMAP_P8`)
- Acceleration sensor: SC7A20 (`DRIVER_ACC_SC7A20`)
- LF clock: XTAL (`LF_CLK=XTAL`)
- Touch sensor: fused gesture (`DRIVER_TOUCH_GESTURE`)
    - Chip marking: `CST716`
    - Reports as `B4-0.2`
    - Fused mode of operation in gesture mode
    - Behavior: Gesture event after gesture only
- Flash: XM25QH32B


## P8b

- Seen as: `MOY-TON5` (`TARGET_DEVICE=MOY_TON5`)
- Pinmap: P8 (`DRIVER_PINMAP_P8`)
- Acceleration sensor: SC7A20 (`DRIVER_ACC_SC7A20`)
- LF clock: RC (`LF_CLK=RC`)
- Touch sensor: fused reporting (`DRIVER_TOUCH_REPORT`)
    - Chip marking: `CST816`
    - Reports as `20-6c.5`, `20-6c.7`
    - Fused mode of operation in reporting mode
    - Resets on pin signal
    - Behavior: Gesture event after gesture, touch events during gesture
    - Alternate behavior observed: Event at beginning of gesture only
- Flash: P25Q32H

## P8b mirrored

- Seen as: *Unknown* (`TARGET_DEVICE=MOY_UNK`)
- Pinmap: P8 (`DRIVER_PINMAP_P8`)
- Acceleration sensor: SC7A20 (`DRIVER_ACC_SC7A20`)
- LF clock: RC (`LF_CLK=RC`)
- Touch sensor: fused reporting (`DRIVER_TOUCH_REPORT`)
    - Chip marking: `TBD`
    - Reports as `TBD`
    - Fused mode of operation in reporting mode
    - Resets on pin signal
    - Behavior: Gesture event after gesture, touch events during gesture
- Flash: P25Q32H
- Display is mirrored and inverted (`DISPLAY_DRIVER_MIRROR`)
